# Output files

- [Output files](#output-files)
  - [seq.fasta](#seqfasta)
  - [best.tree](#besttree)
  - [result.tree](#resulttree)
    - [Bipartition format](#bipartition-format)
  - [summary.txt](#summarytxt)
    - [Summary](#summary)
    - [Best tree](#best-tree)
    - [Not rejected NNI trees](#not-rejected-nni-trees)
    - [Result tree](#result-tree)
  - [indexed.tree](#indexedtree)
  - [tmp-output.tar.gz](#tmp-outputtargz)

## seq.fasta

Represents the sequences.
This is the copy of sequence file specified in `-s`, `--seq` option.

## best.tree

Represents the ML-tree.
This is the copy of tree file specified in `-t`. `--tree` option.

## result.tree

Represents the mapped ML-tree.

### Bipartition format

`-f`, `--out-format` specifies the format of bipartition.
Some keywords of format were replaced by specified values from tests below.
You should be careful that these keywords are recognized as "case-sensitive".

- `{src}`: Replaced by the evaluation value in source tree file (BP, UFBP, SH-aLRT etc.)
- `{bin}`, `{au-bin}`: Replaced by whether the 0/1 value representing the bipartition was supported by AU test or not.
  - `1` represents the bipartition was supported (all alternative trees were rejected).
  - `0` represents the bipartition was not supported (any alternative trees were not rejected).
- `{p}`, `{au-p}`: Replaced by the max *p*-value by AU test of alternative trees.
- `{sh-bin}`: 0/1 value representing the bipartition was supported by SH test.
- `{sh-p}`: Max *p*-value by SH test of alternative trees.
- `{kh-bin}`: 0/1 value representing the bipartition was supported by KH test.
- `{kh-p}`: Max *p*-value by KH test of alternative trees.
- `{wsh-bin}`: 0/1 value representing the bipartition was supported by weighted SH test.
- `{wsh-p}`: Max *p*-value by weighted SH test of alternative trees.
- `{wkh-bin}`: 0/1 value representing the bipartition was supported by weighted KH test.
- `{wkh-p}`: Max *p*-value by weighted KH test of alternative trees.
- `{dlnL}`: Minimum of observed log-likelihood difference between the ML tree and alternative trees.
- `{pp}`: Bayesian posterior probability (PP) of the ML tree calculated by BIC approximation.
- `{bp}`: Bootstrap probability of the ML tree. This value obtained by CONSEL is multiplied by 100.
- `{mbp}`: Bootstrap probability of the ML tree calculated by multiscale bootstrap. This value obtained by CONSEL is multiplied by 100.

**Examples**

|         Format          | Source Evaluation | AU-test support | Max NNI*p*-value |    Output     |
| :---------------------: | :---------------: | :-------------: | :--------------: | :-----------: |
| `{src}/{bin}` (Default) |       `100`       |        +        |      1e-50       |    `100/1`    |
| `{src}/{bin}` (Default) |       `98`        |        -        |       0.07       |    `98/0`     |
|    `{src}/{bin}/{p}`    |       `100`       |        +        |      1e-50       | `100/1/1e-50` |
|      `{bin}/{src}`      |    `100/0.99`     |        +        |      3e-27       | `1/100/0.99`  |
|   `S{src}_A{bin}P{p}`   |       `67`        |        -        |       0.51       | `S67_A0P0.51` |

## summary.txt

Represents the summary of operation.
This file has 4 sections.

- Summary
- Best tree
- Not rejected NNI trees
- Result tree

### Summary

Represents the parameters of operation and total time of operation.

### Best tree

The same as `best.tree`.

### Not rejected NNI trees

List of the NNI trees which are not rejected by AU-test.
This section is formatted as TSV.

1st column represents the *p*-value of tree.
2nd column represents the NNI-tree.

### Result tree

The same as `result.tree`.

## indexed.tree

Represents the tree mapped by bipartition index.
Each index represents the operation number.

## tmp-output.tar.gz

This file has all temporary files.
This file is generated when `--output-tmp-files` option is specified.

**File list**

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Name</th>
        <th>Generated by</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">all.treeset</td>
        <td align="center">AUTOEB</td>
        <td align="left">Represents the NNI tree</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">trees.ckp.gz</td>
        <td align="center" rowspan="5">IQ-TREE</td>
        <td align="left" rowspan="5">Generated in calculating site likelihood values of trees</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">trees.iqtree</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">trees.log</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">trees.sitelh</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">trees.treefile</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">X.sitelh</td>
        <td align="center">AUTOEB</td>
        <td align="left">Represents site lilelihood values of ML tree and two NNI trees about a bipartition</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">X.rmt</td>
        <td align="center" rowspan="2">CONSEL (makermt)</td>
        <td align="left" rowspan="2">Generated in RELL-boostrap</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">X.vt</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">X-makermt.log</td>
        <td align="center">AUTOEB</td>
        <td align="left">Generated in redirecting of output by makermt</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">X.ci</td>
        <td align="center" rowspan="2">CONSEL (consel)</td>
        <td align="left" rowspan="2">Generated in AU-test</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">X-pv</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">X-consel.log</td>
        <td align="center">AUTOEB</td>
        <td align="left">Generated in redirecting of output by consel</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td align="right">X.catpv</td>
        <td align="center">AUTOEB</td>
        <td align="left">Generated in redirecting of output by catpv</td>
    </tr>
</table>
